My listenership skews young and excuse male. Um,
and relative I would argue kind of relative to every other cohort.
And some of it is a good thing and overdue, but relative to other cohorts,
young men are failing and that is, they're not making,
they're not making as much progress as some other cohorts.
And I I'm wondering what advice you have or what advice you would give to your
younger self or what advice you would give to two young men kind of, you know,
just starting out in their career in terms of their professional approach.
And I'd love to hear your thoughts or your learnings about trying to be,
you know, a good dad and a good husband.
I think it's a massive UN under, uh,
discussed topic that young men are failing in the United States of America,
but it's true. Uh, and it's in the numbers. I mean, you can see it,
uh, at every level. One of the things I say in my book, Scott, um,
is that, and I think you were raised by a single mom that's right, right. Yeah.
Child of a single immigrant mother who lived in Deida secretary,
our household income was never more than a $40,000. Uh,
and a warm hand of government literally grabbed me by the Scruff of my neck and
threw me forward. Uh,
and I worry that that warm hand is no longer as big and as caring as it used to
be. Um, but yeah, I'm, I'm the son of a single immigrant mother.
Uh, so, uh, today 40% of kids are,
um, born into single parent households. Uh,
and 90% of the time single parent household is single mother. Yep.
And if you look at the, the data, uh,
little girls who grew up with single moms actually have okay. Outcomes,
um, in part because, uh, girls are more adaptable,
they were better at school earlier. Uh, they've got a strong female role model.
They see supermom. Um, but if you have a little boy in that setting,
um, it turns out that little boys and I I'm the father to two young boys myself,
so I can see why this is the case,
but apparently a little boys are more sensitive to parental time and input and
the lack thereof than little girls, like they, they they're,
they're more subject to, uh, variability that way. Um,
and so the outcomes around boys brought up by single moms.
There are more adverse, uh, academic, um, progressions, uh,
more behavioral issues, um, and the, the data is not great. Um,
and, and to me, a lot of the problems that, that we see, um,
like cascade from, from there,
where you send them to these schools that aren't really equipped, um,
for people at different maturation levels.
And it turns out that boys often mature at different rates than whatever the
grade level is supposed to be. Um, uh, and then, uh, at,
at the college level, uh, in the last I checked, I think is something like, um,
43% of undergrads are men like 57 to 70%.
Kind of high school. Valedictorians are young women. Now.
Think about that. So, so you have, uh, you have boys and men coming of age,
and then you have an economy that has become increasingly punishing and
uninviting. Like it used to be, if you were a guy with a high school education,
you could get like a factory job and like, you know, union household,
middle-class life like dah, dah, dah,
and like all that stuff's gotten decimated, you know,
we've gotten rid of 4 million manufacturing jobs and the rest of it. Um,
and then you have a culture that like, uh, that looks at men and being like,
Hey, whatever happened, it's your fault?
You know, it's a lot like that.
That's like every room we walked into for the last 400 years we've been right.
And all of a sudden, every room we walk into right now we're wrong.
So it's like cry me a river, but I do see young men feeling like,
kind of, they feel like they're, you know, they're,
they're in this nether Netherland right now.
And that as a young guy, myself, I mean,
I remember vividly when my company found in my twenties and like, you know,
you're like, like down on your luck and your competence is shot. Um,
it's hard because I, I at least speaking for myself,
like you had this real thirst to try and make something of yourself.
And when it feels like you can't make something of yourself,
you can like eat yourself alive. It's humiliated. Like, yeah. In my case,
my failure was very public.
Everyone knew that I tried to start this company and that it was a flop and that
like the rest of it. So, uh, because, you know, if you start something,
you kind of have to tell everyone you're doing it. And then when it dies,
then like everyone sees it. So it felt like for a while,
like no one was calling me and the rest of it.
And I remember lying on my floor being like, what did I do? And like,
I owed this a hundred thousand in debt. Um, and I think it is something where,
uh, you know, many, many men are not being Americans generally have been men.
And I think, uh, to a higher degree, like there,
there isn't like a clear path forward. Um, and so, you know,
like my guidance, um, would be to focus on the things that, you know,
you can control that will give you like a,
at least some form of self-development or the worst case scenario,
at least like comfort, where it's like, in my case,
when things went South in my twenties,
like I established some fitness goals for myself, I was like, well, like, sure,
I'm a failure, but at least I'll be a fit failure.
I'll have a six pack. Um, uh, or,
or it could be like something around a relationship where, you know, it's like,
you turn around and say, look, most of my friends, like, you know,
aren't calling me now, but you know, there's one friend is calling me.
And so like, I'm going to try and like, um, uh,
pay attention to the positives in my life. Um, try and learn. I mean,
a lot of people who listen to your podcast are trying to develop their business
savvy. Um, and so that's something that I did. Like,
I tried to find people who knew more than I did,
which was everyone and then learn from them.
One thing that helped me a lot in that direction is reading books. Um,
I think podcasts are great, but I think reading books, um, to me,
it was like the best way to feel like I got inside someone's head. Um,
and w was getting a bit of like, uh, wisdom, um,
the single most concrete thing that happened for me positively and
professionally. Um, and this is advice I'd give to anyone is like,
just try and find someone who, uh, is ahead of you on a path that you want.
And then just say like, look, I will do anything under the sun for you.
I don't care what it pays or doesn't pay. I don't care what you assign me. Like,
I'll take out the garbage, I don't care. But just like my being, uh,
able to like demonstrate my value to that person in that setting, um.
Would be setting.
Me up for at least some degree of development on the path that I wanted. Um,
and so in my case, after my company died,
there was like a more established entrepreneur. Who's like, Hey, join my,
my little company. Um, and I just saw this guy and was like,
this guy is someone that I'd want to be when I grow up. And so like,
whatever this guy wants me to do, I'll do. Um,
and so if you can find someone who you look up to in that respect, um,
just trying to add value for them in any form. Um,
and then you'll find yourself becoming a little bit more like them over time.
Any thoughts on being a good husband and a good father? I mean.
Like, you know, I mean, it's a constant struggle, you know, it's like,
you're gonna be a good dad one day. And then the next day, the next day, like,
you know, like a, B be a, uh, less exemplary parent,
um, as the same being a partner, it's like, you're married. And I mean,
I'm just like the luckiest guy to be married to Evelyn.
Like she put up with so much stuff, um,
and appreciates me for the things that I do bring to the table. Um,
and you know, I just have to, I tell her,
I appreciate her as often as I tell her, I love her. Um, and so a lot of,
a lot of the struggle I've had to deal with,
I think that many people can relate to is just trying to be grateful.
Like,
cause it's so easy to start getting down on yourself or your relationships and
being like, Oh, like I have a document on my phone. That's literally, it's like,
okay, here are the things I'm grateful for.
And then anytime I see myself spiraling in a negative way,
or like snapping at my kid or like snapping at, um, you know,
like someone who doesn't deserve it, I'll be like, wait a minute. Like,
I hadn't seen my kids in like months and I missed them terribly.
And like now I'm around them and I'm like, not appreciating it, like, you know,
like you, you try and like get, get some perspective. Um, and in my case,
it's helpful to have a document. I actually refer to where it's like,
here are the things I'm grateful for. And some of the things are stupid.
You know, some of the things are like, Oh, I'm really grateful for my, like, uh,
for that pizza place. I really liked.
I'm grateful for Chipola every day. Right. You have to put me on your list.
You'd be like, Oh, I love that place. Like good for that. Um, so.
It's like appreciate the little things and the big things.
And in terms of your accomplishments,
have some really easy wins for yourself too. It's like, look,
I can't control my professional path today, but I can make sure I get like a,
you know, a little bit of nature in,
or some pushups in or whatever the hell it is.
Like give yourself some things that you're actually very,
very achievable and basic, and that could be like appreciating Chipotle.
And when did, I'm.
Curious what you're talking about? I think fitness is, I mean,
fitness is my antidepressant.
I think it's something that young people need to embrace it in early age for a
lot of reasons. What's your fitness routine?
Oh, well in quarantine has been a little different, like, uh, like I, I,
I had a weekly basketball game, um,
that was like the centerpiece of my mental health. Um, but now it's,
uh, calisthenics riding a bike, um, playing with the kids.
Good for you. Thank you for listening in. I hope you enjoyed this conversation.
If you did, please do subscribe to yang,
speaks and click on notifications so we can let you know every time we have a
new episode.